welcome
in we are back again yes yes yes indeed
we are in Kindle square and we are
building a computer algebra
system welcomeing welcomeing welcome we
are going to first struggle our theme to
something more amenable to sunlight yes
yes yes indeed okay let's close
everything so what what is it what is
all the hubub about computer
algebra what is
it well we can work with symbols yes yes
yes indeed we can type in X and we get X
back we can say x + one and it says I
don't know what to do with that I don't
know what to do you tell me what to do
we are going to no no we're going to
keep it at 17
DB but I can do this I can say plus one
one and it says well I have a rule for
that I know 1 + one and so I give you
two you say you say plus
X XX and it says I don't know what to do
with that but maybe you could say plus
with a pattern and it stands for
anything and another
pattern that's the same pattern so X is
equal to X in this case and we say set
that equal to time
X2 now when we do plus x x we get time
X2 now what if we want to go beyond that
what if we want to do
plus
times pattern n blank
in close the times then we say time
time +
N1 now we can say + x we can say we can
say time
X3 plus X when we get time
4 and so with this we can build up
simplifying rules you see eight so
that's the computer algebra system and
now what we did last time is we looked
into a famous famous book you see a
famous book and that book is called a
new kind of Science and it's the science
program okay and we went to we went to
the crucial experiment and we looked and
we simp Sim simulated the first 50 or 20
steps of this great system called Rule
and how many steps is
that 500
bro
damn that would take forever in our
system wouldn't
it okay well let's let's dig in
a okay so let's just go one by one we
are defining the rule if you look at the
rule we can
see that there's a Boolean form for each
of the 256 Elementary cellular autometer
and this one so happens to land on rule
30 which is the XO of p with the O of Q
and R and so here if we write that in as
our rule in systems we say we got three
arguments see PQ P what hold on
it doesn't quite matter
right it doesn't quite matter but you
know a man like me ought to
know what the alphabet is and I'm pretty
sure R comes after q but I could be
wrong but it doesn't matter CU these
Boolean rules they're
uh
commutative
okay okay okay so anyways we Define this
simple rule and then we Define a list
form but so could take a list of three
elements y okay and we can see how we
can copy in multiple lines of code into
our program here that's pretty sweet if
you ask me now we Define a function we
say give me a value and give me a list
here's the list here's the value o we
seem to have made a
mistake join that join works like the
following I could say take a list of a
and list of B and give me a list of a
and b h fancy
stuff right now we Define this and it
basically joins a list with the value on
other side so we can make sure that the
that the that the part when we partition
our list we don't grow inwards
see so now we to find uh uh uh uh let's
say we We Set set set X's to range to
ragna ragna
20 right and now let's called little
partition three three for the number of
elements in each object and we take that
and on the x's and interestingly we have
this annoying [__] thing that has
never seemed to cause me a problem I'm
going to we should I'm going to com
so I'm going to put on my
hoodie the sun's supposed to be
shining oh and for all of
you for all of you
halloweeners we can look at the
weather and we can see oh wait today's
actually going to be [__] nice dude
and it's not going to rain bro oh
damn this is that Indian summer Indian
summer beautiful it's so beautiful it's
going to be warm today isn't it is it
all right so we have our partitioned
list what do we [__] do with it
that's that's the question so now what
we do is we map we can do this check
this
map if on two x's now we get a
list and we take the arguments in X's
the list and we apply F to each one so
now we have a function applied to 20
things that's pretty cool is
it um what do we have next we have uh so
this function Fu which actually named Fu
because everyone knows what that means
is First We Take X's our list which
would constitute which means one single
row of our
simulation then what we do is we pad
forth onto the ends of it okay then we
partition then we map rule 30 to each
element of the partition right
see
I wonder how they make this fast I don't
know all right little sneeze now we set
up our initial set to to partition
that's good all right all
right now we have a list of 20 or so
Fales I don't know how many and a single
one in the middle sing true where can we
find it wello wo we found
it now here is the crucial part we call
Nest list which if you want to know what
Nest list does we take a function like f
we give it an argument like X and we say
Nest it five times so we get X then we
get F ofx then we get F of F ofx and we
go all the way up until we've applied oh
hold on
one two three four five five times
perfect okay so now this will give us oh
seemingly forgot to Define
food
yeah I don't know why I feel like it
wasn't doing that last
time okay but regardless if we take the
first part of
Ls we get our initial condition take the
second part we get the simulation at
step two step three and so on so now I
said I want to make a picture of this so
first what I did is I said let the pixel
list
represent uh the replacement of Ls with
all the zeros replaced with a list of
ones representing
a white
pixel bro I thought there was a Color
Picker
a white pixel
right and then one representing a black
pixel this is kind
of the opposite of what I would do but
it does make the picture look
nicer and then okay so let's do
that all right so now we have our pixel
list now we Define find a function
called
export oh wow no
way damn that's crazy that I can do
that I feel half my day is just spent
refreshing stupid vs
code
okay now we have our big
list now I wrote in the
carnal a function called
export export takes a file
name
and an expression and it renders it and
right
now we have this nasty bit of
code that takes our list of list of
lists or whatever and makes it
a
ve of ve of of these
colors very nice so what we can do here
is let's call that
function and it see it makes a big SVG
that's pretty cool but you're using
Cairo bro bro if you're bro ban this
guy how do we ban this
guy
user not been banned ban
him I don't want to see any of that
trash on
here okay so now if we open up this file
we can see the result the fruit of our
labor which is a wonderful picture of
rule 30 so
beautiful so
now
yes so how do I make the color
red how do we do
this that's an
option or can we do we say red
that's so
interesting I wonder if a function
applied to a graphics primitive works
yeah I know but that would be crazy
wouldn't
it I don't know why that's not
the all right well let's try
this
really
and you put it in a
list that's interesting I don't know how
it lowers
that okay so what are we doing today
that's the real question what are we
doing well I think we want this options
thing
let's see how does manipulate
work and what is
the
what the
hell
pretty
cool this one doesn't do
anything
oh that is so
cool oh
cool it's [__] red
I don't know how to do
that all right so I think what I wanted
to do was pattern test so we're going to
do pattern
test okay
Okay
so
[Music]
h
where was that page where it talks about
pattern
test
I'm trying to find okay
so trying to get better at describing
the problem
so what we want is a way to be able to
say
um
hold on I want to add greater than and
less than
support what's the full form of
this
so wait I should what I should do is I
should just say
uh
okay fine I'm just gonna add this
in
um
but so what happens if you
do or
uh right that's
cool all
right
that's
neat that doesn't work at
all
h
all right I don't know I feel like I'm
getting distracted this is
uh we do need comparisons but uh the
point right now is pattern test and what
I was trying to do is I was trying to
motivate how pattern
test
um
works
I think it's in the options
here is a pattern object that stands for
any
expression
right
h
right so
the it's kind of an
interesting
right that make makes
sense
[Music]
because uh we don't have listable in
our we don't have
list and so wait so number
Q also
oops oh number Q is
not
wait
what oh yeah right you have to wrap it
in the list the list of sequence yeah
okay that makes more sense then this
returns false
okay okay
so I think it's possible
it's possible that the answer is a
similar thing to
this and
basically
you do
this
uh where
um
uh hat one I think
that's
I think that's
correct and let's just look at a full
form
right okay then we
say we want to
know
uh oh we
have I'm trying to think because what do
we need to apply number Q to we need to
apply it to what was
matched and we also need
to
that
I might have to
uh cut
this I need to
take I don't want to leave my computer
out
here I mean nobody is
here
uh all right whatever I'm going to end
it real quick and then I'm going to hop
back